Proof of Concept (PoC) or Proof of Principle is a project management term. In project management, it serves as proof that a project is feasible in principle. The criteria for this can lie in technical or business factors. Therefore, it is the basis for further work, in our case, the necessary steps to secure the corporate network by confirming the discovered vulnerabilities. In other words, it serves as a decision-making basis for the further course of action. At the same time, it enables risks to be identified and minimize

This project step is often integrated into the development process for new application software (prototyping) or IT security solutions. For us in information security, this is where we prove vulnerabilities in operating systems or application software. We use this PoC to prove that a security problem exists so that the developers or administrators can validate it, reproduce it, see the impact, and test their remediation efforts. One of the most common examples used to prove software vulnerabilities is executing the calculator (calc.exe on Windows) on the target system. In principle, the PoC also assesses the probability of success of system access from actual exploitation.

A PoC can have many different representations. For example, documentation of the vulnerabilities found can also constitute a PoC. The more practical version of a PoC is a script or code that automatically exploits the vulnerabilities found. This demonstrates the flawless exploitation of the vulnerabilities. This variant is straightforward for an administrator or developer because they can see what steps our script takes to exploit the vulnerability.

The important thing is that the script is only one way of exploiting a given vulnerability. Therefore, working against our script instead of with it and modifying and securing the systems so that our script no longer works does not mean that the information obtained from the script cannot be obtained in another way. It is an important aspect that should be discussed with the administrators and developers and explicitly mentioned and pointed out.